---
title: "Release v1.11.0"
date: 2023-01-31
---

Version 1.11.0 introduces 
[Composition Functions]({{<ref "/guides/composition-functions" >}}), 
[EnvironmentConfigs]({{< ref "/concepts/composition#hl-4-45">}}) and promotes 
[CompositionRevisions]({{<ref "/guides/composition-revisions">}}) to v1beta1.

<!--more-->

## New Features
* Composition Function support introduced in alpha by @negz in #2886. You are now able to write your own custom composition logic, in any programming language of your choice, to augment Crossplane’s built-in patching and transform capabilities.
* EnvironmentConfig support introduced in alpha by @MisterMX in #3007. It’s now possible to patch resources within a Composition by using configuration data from the general runtime environment, as opposed to being constrained to information available within a single composite resource.
* Promoted CompositionRevisions to v1beta1 and are now enabled by default by @ezgidemirel in #3453. CompositionRevisions have been improved with feedback from the community and are now stabilized and ready for general production usage.
* The Crossplane documentation website has been redesigned to give users of Crossplane a better educational experience, whether they are new to the project or more advanced. Check out the new docs site at https://docs.crossplane.io/ and let us know your feedback in the docs repo!
 
## Notable Updates
* This will be the last release to be published to Docker Hub, future releases will use xpkg.upbound.io instead by @nullable-eth in #3568
* ControllerConfing API has been deprecated by @hasheddan in #3678
* Lock API v1alpha1 has been dropped by @negz in #3479
* CompositionRevisions' names are built adding a partial hash suffix by @ezgidemirel in #3391