---
title: v1.13.0
released: July 27, 2023
---

The v1.13.0 release is a regular quarterly Crossplane release that focuses on security, quality, and investing in key feature areas to push the project forward in its maturity and reliability. Some highlights of this release include Ignore Changes, E2E Testing Framework, Security Audit performed by Ada Logic and facilitated by OSTIF, and sponsored by CNCF. See the report for more details.

More details about this release can be read in the Crossplane v1.13 blog post.

<!--more--> 

### WARNINGS
Warning
Upgrades from older versions are broken. Use v1.13.2 instead.

CompositionRevision v1alpha1 was dropped in this release, so upgrades from older versions, or on clusters that had older versions installed at some point in the past, could fail with errors similar to: status.storedVersions[1]: Invalid value: "v1": must appear in spec.versions.

### New Features
Ignore Changes alpha feature introduced by @lsviben. With supporting providers, you can now ignore certain changes that external systems may be making to the resources managed by Crossplane. This is an evolution of the Observe Only Resources API as it continues to mature towards Beta.

### Notable changes
Introduced a new E2E testing framework and an initial set of test cases to ensure we don’t introduce regressions with future changes.
Security Audit is finished and issues found during this process are fixed.
Introduced resolve and resolution policies to Compositions’ environment (spec.environment.policy), allowing to ignore missing EnvironmentConfigs or use new ones added after the initial resolving of the environment selectors.

### Breaking changes
BREAKING CHANGE: EnvironmentConfig label selection default behaviour is now to error out in case of multiple configs matching, old behaviour can be achieved by setting the selector mode to Multiple and maxMatch to 1.
