---
title: v1.15.0
released: November, 1, 2023
weight: 10
---

The v1.14.0 release is a quarterly Crossplane release. 

Read the 
[Crossplane announcement blog](https://blog.crossplane.io/crossplane-v1-14/). 

### 🎉 Highlights
<!-- vale write-good.Weasel = NO --> 
* [Composition functions]({{< ref "../concepts/composition-functions">}}) promoted to `v1beta1`.
* A new [Provider DeploymentRuntimeConfig]({{<ref "../concepts/providers#controller-configuration">}}) to eventually replace the deprecated `ControllerConfig`. 
* New [Crossplane CLI]({{<ref "../cli" >}}) for troubleshooting and package management.
* Support for ordered deletion with [Usages]({{<ref "../concepts/usages">}}).
* Alpha support for [real time composition]({{<ref "../concepts/pods#enable-real-time-compositions">}})


<!--more--> 

### 🚨 Warnings and breaking changes

* Crossplane Helm images have moved from `index.docker.io` to `xpkg.upbound.io`.
  Images are still published to `index.docker.io` but is moving to only publish on
  `xpkg.upbound.io` in a future release.
* Changes to TLS certificates. Existing users of external secret stores need to
  manually update their TLS certificates. Read [Crossplane issue #4565](https://github.com/crossplane/crossplane/pull/4656) for more information. 
* Removed Vault support for External Secret Stores. Crossplane
  suggests using the [ESS Plugins]({{<ref "/knowledge-base/integrations/vault-as-secret-store">}}) as a replacement.
* Removed the `controllerConfigRef` from the Configuration package
  and package revision APIs. 
* The introduction of the new [Crossplane CLI]({{<ref "../cli" >}}) deprecates
  the existing `kubectl crossplane` plugin. 
* The `v1beta1` implementation of Composition Functions is incompatable with
  existing `v1alpha1` functions. 

### 💡 New features

What's new in v1.14.0

#### Crossplane CLI

Crossplane v1.14 introduces a rebuilt [Crossplane CLI]({{<ref "../cli" >}}). 

The Crossplane CLI provides features to help troubleshoot Crossplane resources,
build and publish Crossplane packages and locally test composition functions.

Read the [CLI documentation]({{<ref "../cli" >}}) for information on installing 
and the full set of
supported features. 

#### Real time Compositions

This release adds the alpha feature "real time compositions" to Crossplane. 

Real time compositions allow Kubernetes to immediately notify Crossplane of
changes to composed resources. Crossplane doesn't need to poll resources to
determine their state. 

Real time compositions dramatically speed up the time Crossplane reacts to
changes or failures of managed resources.

The real time compositions feature is an alpha feature and isn't enabled by default.

The [Crossplane pods]({{<ref "../concepts/pods#enable-real-time-compositions">}}) 
documentation has more information about real time compositions. 

#### Ordered resource deletion

Crossplane introduces a new `usages` type to prevent resources from
deletion or to ensure deletion happens in the correct order. 

A `Usages` defines a dependency mapping between a resource and any dependencies.
Crossplane can't delete the parent resource until after deleting the child 
resource.

A `usage` also allow Crossplane to prevent accidental deletion of a resource.

The `usage` feature is an alpha feature and isn't enabled by default.

The [Usages]({{<ref "../concepts/usages">}}) documentation provides information
on enabling and configuring Usages.

### 🏗️ Notable changes

#### Composition functions

v1.14 promotes composition functions to `v1beta1` with a new, more scalable 
architecture for running functions.

Crossplane v1.14 includes CLI tooling, templates, SDKs, and documentation for 
building functions.

Several new functions available for the new architecture, 
including 
[function patch and transform](https://github.com/crossplane-contrib/function-patch-and-transform), 
[function Go templating](https://github.com/crossplane-contrib/function-go-templating), 
and
[function cue](https://github.com/crossplane-contrib/function-cue).

#### Management policies enabled by default

Managed resource "[management policies]({{<ref "../concepts/managed-resources#managementpolicies">}})" moved to beta and are now enabled by
default. 

<!-- vale write-good.Passive = NO -->
#### Object has been modified warnings
<!-- vale write-good.Passive = YES -->

Crossplane changed the behavior causing the event message

<!-- vale off -->
> cannot patch object: Operation cannot be fulfilled on compositenetworks.gcp.platformref.crossplane.io "test-network-d6xjh": the object has been modified; please apply your changes to the latest version and try again`
<!-- vale on --> 


#### Adding extra objects during Crossplane install

The Crossplane Helm chart now supports an `extraObjects: []` array to install
other Kubernetes objects during the Crossplane install. 

#### Support for pausing other Crossplane objects

The Crossplane annotation `crossplane.io/paused` is now supported in Claims,
Composites, Configurations, Functions and Provider objects. 


<!-- vale write-good.Weasel = YES --> 